docs/user.md, before:

# Using ci.bazel.io

[Bazel CI](http://ci.bazel.io) tests Bazel and a variety of
open-source project that use Bazel. The projects using Bazel are
also used to validate Bazel changes.

Bazel CI is testing both on presubmit (on a pending change) or on
postsubmit (on the master branch). It also handles the release project
of Bazel and the performance benchmarks.

## Postsubmit

Every project that runs on Bazel CI is run on postsubmit. It is done
using the GitHub API and handled automatically if
[bazel-io](https://github.com/bazel-io) has write access to the
repository.

## Presubmit

The Bazel CI is able to run presubmit tests of changes from GitHub and
from Gerrit.

A GitHub pull request is tested when an pull request admin comments
__test this please__  or __retest this please__. This presubmit job is
also automatically triggered when an admin pushes a pull request.

  - Admins for pull request are the people from either the
    [bazelbuild](https://github.com/bazelbuild) organization or the
    [google](https://github.com/google) organization.
  - Jenkins identifies those people as admins whose visibility is
    public. To make someone public, go to [the Bazel organization
    page](https://github.com/orgs/bazelbuild/people) (or the
    [Google organization page](https://github.com/orgs/google/people) respectively),
    look for the person's name, and change their visibility to public.

To vet pull request, [bazel-io](https://github.com/bazel-io) must have
write access to the repository (automatic if in the bazelbuild
organization).

Tests on a Gerrit code review are triggered when someone marks the
code review as `Presubmit-Ready+1`. It will update the review thread
with the link to the test results and mark the code review as
`Verified+1` or `Verified-1` depending on the result of the test. To
retrigger a test, simply reset the `Presubmit-Ready` label.

## Global tests

In addition to pre- and postsubmit tests for an individual change, the
Bazel CI performs a "global test" which builds Bazel from a branch, and
uses that build of Bazel to run all the other jobs on the Bazel CI. It
then produces a report comparing the global test results of this build
of Bazel with the global test results from the latest release of
Bazel.

This report can be found at `http://ci.bazel.io/job/Global/job/pipeline/<buildNumber>/Downstream_projects/`,
for instance for the last run it will be at
[http://ci.bazel.io/job/Global/job/pipeline/lastBuild/Downstream_projects/](http://ci.bazel.io/job/Global/job/pipeline/lastBuild/Downstream_projects/).

## Release process

In addition to testing all the jobs, the global test handles pushing
the artifacts that are created by a release branch to GCS and to the
GitHub release system.

## Performance benchmarks

Performance benchmarks run once a day. This job triggers a run of the
performance tests on each new commit. The performance for each commit
is reported at [perf.bazel.build](https://perf.bazel.build).

Commit message:

Enable to use configuration files from the repository
The configuration files are currently checked into the CI system
repository. However, they really belongs to the repository, they
are the "blueprint" of what should be build and tested on the CI system.

The file can be checked in either at .ci/${name}.json or
at scripts/ci/${name}.json.

Change-Id: I2f0dedf7378ccb85605d0aa22d354e74b5a06ff7

docs/user.md, after:

# Using ci.bazel.io

[Bazel CI](http://ci.bazel.io) tests Bazel and a variety of
open-source project that use Bazel. The projects using Bazel are
also used to validate Bazel changes.

Bazel CI is testing both on presubmit (on a pending change) or on
postsubmit (on the master branch). It also handles the release project
of Bazel and the performance benchmarks.

If you wish to add or modify a configuration for one of the project
tested on Bazel CI, go see the
[project owner documentation](owner.md).

## Postsubmit

Every project that runs on Bazel CI is run on postsubmit. It is done
using the GitHub API and handled automatically if
[bazel-io](https://github.com/bazel-io) has write access to the
repository.

## Presubmit

The Bazel CI is able to run presubmit tests of changes from GitHub and
from Gerrit.

A GitHub pull request is tested when an pull request admin comments
__test this please__  or __retest this please__. This presubmit job is
also automatically triggered when an admin pushes a pull request.

  - Admins for pull request are the people from either the
    [bazelbuild](https://github.com/bazelbuild) organization or the
    [google](https://github.com/google) organization.
  - Jenkins identifies those people as admins whose visibility is
    public. To make someone public, go to [the Bazel organization
    page](https://github.com/orgs/bazelbuild/people) (or the
    [Google organization page](https://github.com/orgs/google/people) respectively),
    look for the person's name, and change their visibility to public.

To vet pull request, [bazel-io](https://github.com/bazel-io) must have
write access to the repository (automatic if in the bazelbuild
organization).

Tests on a Gerrit code review are triggered when someone marks the
code review as `Presubmit-Ready+1`. It will update the review thread
with the link to the test results and mark the code review as
`Verified+1` or `Verified-1` depending on the result of the test. To
retrigger a test, simply reset the `Presubmit-Ready` label.

## Global tests

In addition to pre- and postsubmit tests for an individual change, the
Bazel CI performs a "global test" which builds Bazel from a branch, and
uses that build of Bazel to run all the other jobs on the Bazel CI. It
then produces a report comparing the global test results of this build
of Bazel with the global test results from the latest release of
Bazel.

This report can be found at `http://ci.bazel.io/job/Global/job/pipeline/<buildNumber>/Downstream_projects/`,
for instance for the last run it will be at
[http://ci.bazel.io/job/Global/job/pipeline/lastBuild/Downstream_projects/](http://ci.bazel.io/job/Global/job/pipeline/lastBuild/Downstream_projects/).

## Release process

In addition to testing all the jobs, the global test handles pushing
the artifacts that are created by a release branch to GCS and to the
GitHub release system.

## Performance benchmarks

Performance benchmarks run once a day. This job triggers a run of the
performance tests on each new commit. The performance for each commit
is reported at [perf.bazel.build](https://perf.bazel.build).
